[Music]
well here's a video that really bites
connect six of megalodons most vicious
enemies
[Music]
Megalodon was the biggest and baddest
shark of the ocean 23 million years ago
it could grow up to 60 feet and it's job
ID was stronger than a t-rex is it was a
force to be reckoned with eating other
sharks whales and dolphins for breakfast
so you might think that there was
nothing that could stop it
but even this massive shark had enemies
and their fights could be lethal think
of a t-rex vs. Godzilla
way out in the middle of the ocean
wearing life vests duking it out and you
get the picture
well maybe not life vests those are from
the Flintstones period
check out these six enemies of Megalodon
that could certainly give it a run for
its money well they didn't have money
then either but you get it right
hey first make sure you click the
subscribe button and turn on
notifications now you'll be one of the
first bright ciders to watch our videos
counting down from number six
seto thuria okay so they've given me a
bunch of these big ten dollar long Latin
words to try to say let's just count up
how much I can earn here okay
Sedo thorium was a baleen whale from the
seed othera dye family it lived in the
mid Miocene period to the early Pliocene
period and grew up to 15 feet fossil
records have revealed that Sedo thorium
would be megalodons top target Megalodon
would be massive compared to sita thuria
but see the thorium had a few tricks up
its sleeve
the very first whales had pointed teeth
for catching and killing other sea
animals later on Sita thorium evolved
and developed baleen a strong but
flexible material made of keratin which
caught small organisms and worked as a
strainer as it fed the small organisms
would have been caught in large enough
quantities to keep seed of thorium
satisfied this would keep seed of
thorium close to the surface and away
from Megalodon but when Sita thorium was
spotted by Megalodon there was no escape
Megalodon would dive down to look up at
its prey and then it would Ram Sita
thorium at high speed damaging vertebrae
in the process Sedo thorium would be too
stunned to be able to escape and all's
well that ends well
[Music]
number five is a co-fighter feral eye
this large predator was unknown until
geologists found an almost complete
Saiga fighter skeleton in 2016 on the
shores of southern Italy it's also
referred to as a killer sperm whale
because of its strong similarities in
size to the killer whale and its close
relationship to the sperm whale Zygo
Feist setter lived in the late miocene
period some 11 to 7 million years ago
and it cruised the Mediterranean region
from fossil records paleontologists have
gathered that Zygo fighter grew to be 20
feet long it had an asymmetrical cranium
which is commonly associated with
high-frequency sound production and
echolocation Zygo fighter used its
echolocation to find and hunt large prey
their teeth could range from 6 to 10
inches and they had 14 teeth in their
lower jaw and 13 on top since their
teeth were large and they had full jaw
functionality it's likely that they fed
on large fish dolphins small whales and
cephalopods such as squids and octopuses
it's lethal bite would have been its
best chance against Megalodon
number four although Feist said er now
all of I said er was a predatory whale
very similar to modern-day sperm whales
sperm whales are the largest predators
and the largest toothed whales today
Oh loaf I said er lived in the Miocene
period back then the country of Panama
was underwater and many species crossed
from the east coast of North America to
the west coast through a passageway the
passageway called the Central American
Seaway was also a favored travel spot
for Megalodon follow fly setters reached
a length of 20 feet and weighed about
2400 pounds with these specifications
anyone can see that Megalodon was much
larger but a low fighters would swim in
groups to repel attacks by giant beasts
like Megalodon in the hope of being
protected by the door number three oh my
brig mph I said er should jens's now
brig mph I Center was a highly predatory
sperm whale the only known fossil is a
nearly complete skeleton that is dated
at 14 to 15 million years old from it
paleontologists gathered that brig mo
Phi Center was 23 feet long
like Zygo Fighter brig malphite's header
also had teeth and its upper and lower
jaws these powerful jaws and their size
set them at the top of the food chain
and they roam near the coast of Japan
like sperm whales it had a sperma Ceti
organ which gave it the ability to use
echolocation to find and identify prey
megalodons traveled all the way around
the world as evidenced by the location
of their fossils megalodons and brig mo
fighters swam the oceans at the same
time the Miocene period brig mph I said
er was a predator to fish squid and
other small whales but its role could
switch from predator to prey when it
faced Megalodon
number two Ram pho such as now renfa
such s is one of the largest known
crocodiles ever to roam earth the world
wouldn't even be aware of the existence
of Rafa such as if it wasn't for the
discovery of in complete sets of fossils
that are mostly teeth and skulls Ram
fascitis is estimated to have been 26 to
36 feet long it inhabited the Indian
subcontinent and like Megalodon it lived
in the Miocene period it's a relative of
the modern false gari Oh a native of
Peninsular Malaysia like the false Korea
it is believed to have had a longer and
thinner snout compared to other
crocodiles it also had multiple teeth to
capture its prey theory suggests that
Ram Phocis fed on fish and on occasion
much larger prey Rafa such as was such
an excellent swimmer thanks to its
strong and long tail given its massive
size it would go into rivers and oceans
to try to find enough food to sustain it
this is where it was likely to have
occasionally encountered Megalodon RAM
facetious and megladon would have fought
over the same food given that ralphus
Suches had such a long and strong bite
it would have been a big challenger to
Megalodon number one live yatin Melville
a you might know this whale by the name
Leviathan
soon after researchers discovered
leviathans fossils and assigned it the
name Leviathan they realized that the
name had already been taken by a
mastodon a century earlier
this caused the switch to the Hebrew
spelling of live yatin now live yatin
and Megalodon were two of the most
terrifying creatures to roam the oceans
and both live during the Miocene period
live yatin was a whale that was 60 feet
long and weighed up to 50 tons its
largest teeth were up to 14 inches long
a theory about live yatin Smith
finding is that it was very similar to
megalodons it would dive deep and
headbutt its prey at fast speeds and its
target would be other whales Megalodon
and Leviathan competed for the same food
and fought over turf
they both preferred to feed on baleen
whales like Sita thorium which we
mentioned earlier live yatin had the
longest team but Megalodon had the
strongest bite they were both of a
similar size and weight and had plenty
of reasons to fight each other so who do
you think would win in a fight it's
unclear if these two beasts actually
targeted each other but it is likely
that they butted heads over food
[Music]
regardless of whether these predators
could win a battle against Megalodon or
not their existence put a big dent in
megalodons lifespan Megalodon was of
such a massive size that it needed over
2,500 pounds of food a day research
suggests that the increase in
competition for food from other
predators and the lack of prey might
have been a strong factor in megalodons
extinction so who do you think would win
a fight between live yatin and Megalodon
do you think any of these predators
could have taken down Megalodon tell us
your opinion in the comments oh and give
us your guess as to how many times I had
to read a long Latin $10 word and
finally don't forget to click subscribe
to stay on the bright side of life
[Music]
you